God is the first ever in existence. Actually in my language we literally say either “Isten” or in earlier and ural form “Östen”. From this word, the root “Ős” means “Ancient” while also meaning “Ancestor” (or everything).

Just think for a moment: if everything has some precursor, you can never realize the universe. One never have infinite existing elements in the universe - but have infinite possibilities laid out by earlier rules and laws of Nature, God, Humans, etc.

Early Hungarian and Scythian thinking is that everything that exists is always a constantly growing number of “existing lifes”. A life is a connection between a life and an other one and a creation of it. Nothing ever changes, just everything grows branches like that between this and that like the ancient tree of life is always growing. For example if you look at a nice red tulip in your garden, what colors, smells, touch your sense get created right at the moment - it is a new creation between you and the tulip. These are the two sides this branch on the tree of life connects together. If this sensation you have created starts living too, it will create further branches by sensing the universe around it. Everything else is illusion - like “movement”, “change” and everything - albeit a really good illusion and part of what we call life.

When knowing these from ancient Hungarian culture and depictions it is actually surprising why people are surprised on some “weird stuff” on the really deep and modern physics. It is just clear how it works when a quantum-state (that they say being infinite possibilities) fall from being a wave into being a discrete state, while a spectator measures. It is because it was never really an “infinite state” and that “infinite possible cases” do never exist in reality. What exists is a finite set of “rules” that lay there as a possible set of tools to build a building. It is as if you have simple building tools like a can, a hammer and some stones and you are imagining how many kind of houses you can build from that. The latter is infinite, but is still “constrained” by the rules. If you go more abstract you can imagine “numbers” if you want too: are there ever infinite natural numbers? Or maybe there is just “0” (zero) as a number and “+1” as something that creates a new number? This gives infinite possibilities, but it could mean that whenever the first ever person counts to 100 or calculates with it it is being “created” only at that time… basically… on-demand from rules… while 101 is still just a possibility until you write it down or count until it, or use it, etc.

This had to start somewhere, it had to have a root! You must see that infinite exists because of construction pieces that make possibilities - instead of existing entities - while the world and universe we know surely has many-many already existing entities. If there is no beginning to it, it would be like a quantum-state that keeps itself as a wave and never have a chance to “discretize”. Actually it would not even exist, because existence is always discrete. If you are tracking threads well-enough you must get to “something” or “someone” that have started it all: the ancestor of everything or the most ancient. The first creator of the universe - something that is like we are - but both of its ends are itself. We are like a thread that connects two different existing entities, lifes (likely your mother and father?), while God is what Bible tells about it: He is both the alpha and the omega - he is like a circle, the fullness.

Now with all this knowledge that were hidden so far in our rare culture - read again the very first chapters of your Holy books and decide what is what. I actually take part in writing a book about gathering these old topics that are visible from early Hungarian motives, tales and myths and how they can be interpreted as of today. It will be avaiable only in Hungarian language because many things require language analysis to see the connections. For this small information shared here, let it be enough that “Östen” is both the “most ancient” and “ancestor of anything”, while the leaves of the tree of life (“levél”) not only mean leave, but also mean the message you get from the post office from your friends - this is because the tree of life is built mostly on messages - when you get a message about the color, smell, touch of the tulip and how your soul interpret it.

I hope this helps - and knowing that I do not know about other cultures approaching this the same way I hope it sheds light on things you otherwise would need to think out yourself once again ;-)
