Yes. Magyar is our name (after Magor - brother of Hunor and also son of Nimród) while “Ország” means country. This latter word is related to “Őr” which means guard and “-szág” which is a suffix to mean “guardedness”. The same word can be also seen in names like “Arsac” and the Arsacian” dynasty of the Parthian (Pártos) empire and people falsely think it is some kind of family name while it clearly and visibly is a title for ruler in those times and is a related word. This explains why there is 4–5 rulers with the same name after each other - because what they shared was not a name but a title. It is as if one would think “király” is a name (it has became so though: see Király Gábor our goalkeeper in last EU chanpionships). Király on the other hand is understood as Körülj or Kerülj: Kör+üly - meaning the one who goes around or defines (the nation / land, looks around for it etc.)

Also “Úr” means lord in my language. If you want to say it in a long and varied form, you can also say “Uraság”. This follows the same suffix-construction more or less for “-ság” and “-szág” and kind of means “lordness” or similar to how english people say “highness” (the latter is bad translation as meaning does not go through well, but that is what english people would call it in their langauge). This is even more visible if you take into account the word “uradalom” (~reign / land of reign). Which is a similar countruction like “lakodalom” (latter for a marriage, from the root of “lak” (like in lakni: living [in] or lakmározni: to feed yourself a lot). In any ways an “Úrság” can as much mean the lord or the land he owns and both are related to “Őr”.

About Magyar: this is named after Magor true, but his name also means a thing: it is built out of the word root “Mag” (seed) and “-or”. Basically it is like a seeder or a Mag-Úr (seed-lord, lord of seeds). This is what common known words like “Mágia”, and “Mágus” are from to be honest alongside foreign words like Magic. Countless examples show the meaning of this word root in Hungarian like Magos (seedy / high), Magas (high), Magvas (seedy), Maga (your-self), Magam (my-self), Mag (seed) and even constructions like “meg-fog” (catch - while fog only means hold itself)…

Putting all the above magic together you end up saying “Magyarország”. Yes it means “Hungary” as the country, but as you can see it means much more and there is a long hidden story in this word ready for you to uncover and we are just scratching the surface now ;-)
