These are not conflicting at all - and only simple-minded people choose “sides” instead of looking behind the scenes…
I guess a lot of people would also argue that “there is no such as belief in science as those are facts”. This latter is also bullshit and those are believers indeed - just they do not even know. Some “blind faith” is necessary otherwise you cannot be sure even in the smallest or most reasonable things.
**Make this thought-experiment:**
1. **Suppose that the world** as you sense it today, with all the memory in your brain **got created 1 seconds ago.**
2. How can you know anything about the world? Let’s suppose you are the smartest and most intelligent person, knowing everything in maths from abstract algebra group theory, through probability and statistics and you understand the whole proof of the famous theorem from Fermat. Let’s suppose you also know Physics all throughout from standard mechanics trhough both relativity and quantum-physics so much that you actually know a unified theory of physics everyone searches - just you haven’t written it down yet. Also suppose you know chemistry, biology, computer sciences, etc. etc. etc. - **so actually just let us suppose you are really smart**.
3. Define “blind faith” as everyday people define: something is called like this, if you cannot know something is true, but you accept it just blindly and build everything on top of that.
Given the above, one can think that “believing only in what we see” is a form to say “I do not believe anything just with a blind faith”.
Let us ask a question with the above setup: **Will my pen fall down if I release it from my hand in this room?**
Most people who are not even that smart as the above, would blindly say yes… There is a reason why I say “blindly say”.
1. **If the world got created 1 seconds ago** only and everything you sense and remember was mostly created from scratch back then immediately (everything came to exist in that very moment) it means that generally nothing we know from the past apply.
2. It means no one ever have released the pen from their hands, Newton was not under the tree when the apple have fallen on his head and we were never at the university, we were never “born” from our mother, never grew up, never felt with our bike, never a pen fall out from our hand in the school. **All our have is only ****f****ake**** ****memory!**
3. We cannot use anything from our memories: it can all be both misleading or right. **Given the circumstances** that the world was created just one moment ago actually** **there is more mathematical chance that all the memories are fake: **There is only one (!) case the world follows** completely what we would conclude according to** our 1-seconds old , fictive memory** we have been created with **while there can be endless possibilities** (not just endless like a number, but literally aleph-anything) in which the created world actually **do not correspond to our 1-sec, born-with memory at all** so that the pen does not even fall down. For this you first need to imagine a just 1-second old world (for real scientist I have to say you can quantate as small as you wish backwards - less than 1 seconds until you cannot consciously differentiate would be just too crazy to think about for everyday people who should otherwise follow this discussion).
4. Actually to “expect” that everything in our memory would be in sync with what the real rules of the universe are is only sensible if we believe that there is “someone” who made the world like that so there is a link between what memory we got born with and how the world works. This cannot be random, otherwise the pen has a better chance not to fall down than we think! An other solution to this same thing is to “believe” that someone or something have created so many worlds that in some of them - that were all created 1 seconds ago - there is *us* with the fake memories which are for some reason completely corresponding to what will happen when we release the pen from our hand. You can argue that this is nearly as bad to believe that the “someone” who created the world 1 second ago made it such a way that we got created with memories that correspond to it - but believing only the many words in this sense is actually worse, because there is no way to know if we are in the “right” combination among the many words or not so believing only in this blindly do not even help alone - you need to believe that it works that way and you are in the rightly combinated world where the memory fits the rules. This seems to be harder to believe in than just believing that there is someone who created the world one second ago and intenionally given you the older-than-one-second memories to help you in it! Just imagine it as someone creating a computer game and adding fake memory to the inhabitants that surely can help then in the simulated environment vs. creating random simulated environments with random memories to the inhabitants that make them fail in 99% of the simulations. **In any ways it is only faith that helps, because you cannot know anything for sure.**
Okay. **To understand all the above correctly, you need to accept it that the world is just 1 seconds old but you have fake memories you were created with - that feel much older to you. Seriously. Please imagine that you literally know this is true** - maybe it being part of your “fake” memories. How would you answer what will happen if the pen falls down? Hopefully by faith only - blind faith.
There are two arguments now to say alongside the above, considering we “do not know the world is created 1 seconds ago, just this guy says it on quora”:
* **Arg A.:** There are things that can be known to be true, just because they follow an universal logic and it does not count if you got those memories as fake or not, but you can tell apart them from bad and illogical rules. Like the rules of maths in your memory must be true.
* **Arg B.:** It does not really count if my memory is false or not in this moment, I make a simple experiment and look at my pen that either falls down or do something else (not according to my memories). Albeit I cannot check all my memories are fitting or not, I can check if the pen and gravity and stuff was right and can check things gradually and believe much better that things are in the way I remember (even if fake memory even if real).
* **Arg C.:** For some reason I have memories about statistics and probability. Fake or not I can calculate that the thought experiment being true is not so probable. Why would the universe be created 1 seconds ago? I think the probability of this is too low.
* **Arg D.:** I have seen a proof here and there and and experiment here and there that falsifies this bullshit. It can be anything: for example you might have read something about time is not being linear or not quantate-able and thus want to attack parts of the thought experiment that according to research it is being not possible and thus irrelevant.
These are valid trains of though, but are illusions if you think about similar ideas enough. 
**Let us start with ****arg D****: **
* Okay. So you “read” or “experimented” or “proven” that time is not linear, not like in the thought experiment or anything related to that and happy in your anti-religious soul (as it is surely the theory is for religious people you hate isn’t it? Btw you are not right!)
* The problem is that everyone knows themselves that regardless of what you read, what experiments show what and how you prove it, this is how we perceive time and we do perceive the moment 1 second ago and still can think about “what if the world was created then”. You can make an experiment with pricy quantum equipment but you run into the problem of not sensing it yourself, but relying on an equipment that tells you information. Also I want to ask you to put the “moment of creation” right after you made your experiments designed to attach the constructs of the thought experiment presented here so that the world was created when you read this text - not before you made your experiment. The memory in your mind about your results thus can be fake. Sad but true.
**This leads to Arg C.:**
* You calculate probability and statistics based on a fake memory when the world was created one second ago? Don’t be fooled! Probability only “works”, because it is known to work. For example flip two identical coins in both of your hands, what is the chance of it both being heads? 1/4 or 1/3? Everyone knows it, but why it is like that? Because it has been measured and it is known it works based on what we see in our memory from our world.
* For the coins how do you know which of the following models fit?
    * Good case: HH; All cases: HH, HT, TH, TT => 1/4
    * Good case: 2H; All cases: 2H 1H1T, 2T => 1/3
You cannot differentiate between the two coins and I can easily imagine a universe where there is no person ever able to differentiate them so even if you ideologize the first version works because of the small differences, there might be a universe in which that does not apply. For example a universe in which a world gets created in every 10 seconds - but with different rules. Think of this as a simulation where someone wants to simulate that given this or that “fake memories” what actors decide and how they act in short scenes. In this setup the two money coins can be literally identical to the subatomic level with rules where 1/3 is the chance.
And I am not even talking about “more fantastic” world where things just happen that way that you see the coins identical, but one of them will be heads all the time, the other will be tails all the time - despite whatever you expect. If we open the “pandora’s box” possibility of the created world being simulation, you cannot expect this latter to not happen. If you expect it you better learn more computer sciences and create some simple simulations yourself with NPC actors in them (it is called game development :D )
**and we have already started to talk about arg B.:**
Now comes the real deal. You can imagine it any moment that the world got created only one seconds ago. Let this sink in a bit.
What this means? There is a small chance for this? Oh dear… the key is that it is possible and if it happens to be true you cannot rely on probability anymore. This is a real problem and if you do not understand it, that happens to be because you want to hide some of your “blind faith” in things just because the whole reason you turned towards science was partially because an outright fear towards faith (not religion, but faith).
Actually there is innumerable, aleph-anything count of universe setup possibilities in which you cannot tell what will happen with the pen. Imagining ways in which you cannot rely on your own memory and the past is only constrained by your imagination.
But the reality is that there would be a real problem even if the latter cannot be done, **because if it is just possible that we cannot rely on the past and if we cannot rely on the past we cannot rely on anything about probability neither. Period. And it is possible very easily that the world have been created a moment ago - no one can rule this out ever… This is not falsificable…**
Though to swallow. I read this from a Hungarian author not yet published anywhere. I am not about to name them so let it be called a white bird from the other side or a “collective knowledge of a nation” until anything appears on this topic. I only write it here, becase this thought experiment had been appearing only among Hungarian language speakers as far as I know.
**What about argument A?**
I would say this is the best bet, yet it is very hard to tell if anything can be proven to be surely true without the knowledge of the past. So be careful! Everything you want to put in this category must survive the notion of everything you know or heard or saw or experimented, or read - to be false and should work in a world being a simulation with competely weird rules.
Something that fits argument A for example is the “**Theorem of uncertainty**” - basically the culmination point of this whole train of though. It might be said that “**every past knowledge - not part of the current senses of ours - is uncertain if it involves the past. This is sure - included this theorem itself.**”
This seems to be a classic contradiction in logic, but if you have really followed what was written here and if my translation was good-enough you will not see a contradicion at all ;-)
We are just scratching the surface. I have seen a big pile of handwritten notes spanning through a lot of pages with more imagined argument solutions and common questions they prepare for, but as far as I know it is still not published to this day by the old Hungarian wise man and his collegues. I have only presented the ones I remember the most… in any ways you better go and personally talk with interesting people as much as you can. At least that is what I like the most. Gathering really interesting information - even if I just share it rarely or among friends when we discuss it alongside a nice red wine in the cellar ;-)
**Short conclusions**
In any ways… Does the above mean we should “not even believe what we saw or know - only what we see in the very moment?”
SURELY NOT! You should have faith in that except if you are a lunatic. Only lunatics have no faith at all.
Should this mean you need to accept this or that religion or turn towards mysticism? It all belongs to you what you want to believe in, the above just shows you some things you blindly believe and might not consciously knwo.
Should this mean that science is useless as we cannot be sure about it? If you have no faith at all - then yes. But in the real life NO HELL, SCIENCE IS AWSOME AND PRACTICAL!!! I cannot prove it if you do not believe blindly in at least some of the most basic things, but trust me then.
Oh… and is religion and science against each other? Hardly so. If you still ask this question after reading all the above I cannot help. Look for the big number of scientists who are religious too. It is so bad that some people think religion and science cannot coexists - those people neither understand the philosophy behind science, neither behind religions… yet they might be big figures in either science or religion or otherwise smart persons, maybe even useful persons to society…
